DOC-2244: TinyMCE 6 to 7 `migration guide`. (#3066)
tinymce/tinymce-docs: modules/ROOT/pages/migration-from-6x.adoc

:description: Guidance for migrating from TinyMCE 6 to TinyMCE 7
:keywords: migration, considerations, premigration, pre-migration

The process for setting up a basic {productname} 7 instance is the same as {productname} 6.

Most configuration changes in {productname} 7.0 only affect complex use cases, such as custom plugins and customized user interface components.

It set outs the {productname} 7.0 changes that customers using {productname} 6 should be aware of as part of upgrading.

> NOTE: For support related to migration, please contact https://support.tiny.cloud/hc/en-us/requests/new[Tiny support].  +

Author: ```suggestion
NOTE: For support related to migration, please contact https://support.tiny.cloud/hc/en-us/requests/new[Tiny Support].  +
```

[[overview]]
== Overview

* xref:commands-and-apis[Commands and APIs]
* xref:options[Options]
* xref:plugins[Plugins]
* xref:ui-and-ux[UI and UX]
* xref:security[Security]

[[tinymce-70-core-changes]]
== {productname} {productmajorversion} core changes.

For additional details on {productname} 7.0 changes, see xref:7.0-release-notes.adoc[{productname} 7.0 release notes].

[[commands-and-apis]]
== Commands and APIs 

This section documents the core changes made to {productname} 7.0.

=== Changed

==== Removed `InsertOrderedList` and `InsertUnorderedList` commands from {productname} core.

Previously, native list commands were executable through various text patterns, leading to undefined browser behavior due to the embedded list code.

[NOTE]
To utilize these commands, include `plugins: [ 'lists' ]` in the configuration. This action enables the commands previously removed from the core, providing access through the `lists` plugin.

.Example adding list plugin
[source, js]
----
tinymce.init({
  selector: "textarea",
  plugins: [
    "lists"
  ],
  toolbar: "bullist numlist",
});
----

> [[remove-trailing-brs-configuration-property-was-removed-from-our-DomParser-API]]

Author: ```suggestion
[[remove-trailing-brs-configuration-property-was-removed-from-our-domparser-api]]
```

Author: @tiny-ben-tran fixed as mentioned

[[plugins]]
== Plugins

[[removed-plugins]]
=== Removed Plugins

In {productname} 7.0 the below plugin has been removed.

[[removed-plugins-template-plugin]]
==== Removed open-source `Template` plugin

The open-source `Template` plugin and associated config options have been removed in {productname} 7.0.

Customers using the `template` plugin need to migrate to the premium `advtemplate` which contains all the functionality except some esoteric options.

This plugin has been replaced with the **Advanced Template** plugin, see: xref:advanced-templates.adoc[Advanced Template] for more details.

[IMPORTANT]
For customers using the `template` plugin and are looking to migrate to the premium `advtemplate` plugin which contains all the functionality except some specific options which are noted below.

Options not available in **Advanced Template** plugin
    
* `template_cdate_classes`
* `template_cdate_format`
* `template_mdate_classes`
* `template_mdate_format`
* `template_replace_values`
* `template_preview_replace_values`
* `template_selected_content_classes`

> [[ui-and-ux-elements-and-components]]

Author: ```suggestion
[[ui-and-ux]]
```

== UI and UX

=== Improved

[[ui-and-ux-improved-how-styles-are-applied-when-resizing-rows-and-columns-for-tables]]
==== Improved how cell and row heights are applied to tables.

Previously, {productname} added numerous `height` styles when resizing table rows such as on the `table` element, `tr` elements, and `td` elements. This resulted in unnecessarily verbose HTML output.

{productname} 7.0 addresses this by making a couple of changes:

* The height input field has been removed from the "Cell Properties" dialog. Now, the "Row Properties" dialog is the only way to update row heights. 
* When a table is resized using the resize handles or the "Row properties" dialog, existing `height` styles will be stripped from `td/th` elements where applicable and only applied to the `table` element and `tr` elements.

[NOTE]
{productname} 7.0 does not provide any fallback to revert to the old behavior.

=== Removed

> [[ui-and-ux-elements-and-components-force-notifications-to-have-a-close-button]]

Author: ```suggestion
[[ui-and-ux-force-notifications-to-have-a-close-button]]
```

As a result, the focus outline for the editor will by default be displayed when the focus is on the editor.

Customers who have created their own custom skins, or have implemented their own outline and do not intend to use the default will need to add `highlight_on_focus: false` to their {productname} configuration.

[NOTE]
This change does not impact editors using inline mode.

=== Removed

[[force-hex-color]]
==== `force_hex_color`

Previously in {productname} 6, all colors in the content HTML were set to use `rgb` values by default. As the common practice is using `hex` values this change has been reverted.

.Example
[source, html]
----
<!-- example using RGB values -->
<p>Hello <span style="color: rgb(255, 0, 0);">red</span> color</p>

<!-- example using HEX values -->
<p>Hello <span style="color: #ff0000">red</span> color</p>
----

In {productname} 7.0, all colors (excluding `rgba` values) are converted to use `hex` values and the `forced_hex_color` option has been removed.

[[plugins]]
== Plugins

=== Changed

==== Changed the `media_url_resolver` option to use promises.
// #TINY-9154

> In {productname} 6, the `media_url_resolver` option used a callback rather than a promise, which lead to unforeseen consequences.
> 
> To rectify this, all instances of `media_url_resolver` were refactored to utilize promises in {productname} 7.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In {productname} 6 and earlier, the `media_url_resolver` option provided `resolve` and `reject` callbacks, rather than a Promise. In certain circumstances this implementation resulted in unexpected behavior.

In {productname} 7, the `media_url_resolver` option now requires a Promise to be returned.
```

> .Before refactor when using callbacks

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Old expected value implementing callbacks
```

[source,js]
----
tinymce.init({
  selector: 'textarea',  // change this value according to your HTML
  plugins: 'media',
  toolbar: 'media',

>   media_url_resolver: (data, resolve/*, reject*/) => {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  media_url_resolver: (data, resolve, reject) => {
```
Both are used in the example

    if (data.url.indexOf('YOUR_SPECIAL_VIDEO_URL') !== -1) {
      const embedHtml = `<iframe src="${data.url}" width="400" height="400" ></iframe>`;
      resolve({ html: embedHtml });
    } else {
      resolve({ html: '' });
    }
  }
});
----

> .After refactor using promises

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.New expected value returning a Promise
```

[source,js]
----
tinymce.init({
  selector: 'textarea',  // change this value according to your HTML
  plugins: 'media',
  toolbar: 'media',
  media_url_resolver: (data) => {
    return new Promise((resolve) => {
      if (data.url.indexOf('YOUR_SPECIAL_VIDEO_URL') !== -1) {
        const embedHtml = `<iframe src="${data.url}" width="400" height="400" ></iframe>`;
        resolve({ html: embedHtml });
      } else {
        resolve({ html: '' });
      }
    });
  }
});
----

[NOTE]
Integrators will be required to update there configuration to the reflect the new `media_url_resolver` changes.

For more information on using `+media_url_resolver+`, see xref:media.adoc#media_url_resolver[media_url_resolver]

[[removed-plugins]]
=== Removed Plugins

In {productname} 7.0 the below plugin has been removed.

[[removed-plugins-template-plugin]]
==== Removed open-source `Template` plugin

The open-source `Template` plugin and associated config options have been removed in {productname} 7.0.

> Customers using the `template` plugin need to migrate to the premium `advtemplate` which contains all the functionality except some esoteric options.
> 
> This plugin has been replaced with the **Advanced Template** plugin, see: xref:advanced-templates.adoc[Advanced Template] for more details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Customers using the `template` plugin are recommended to upgrade to the premium **Templates** plugin which provides enhanced template functionality. For more information on the **Templates** plugin, see: xref:advanced-templates.adoc[Templates] for more details.
```

> [IMPORTANT]
> For customers using the `template` plugin and are looking to migrate to the premium `advtemplate` plugin which contains all the functionality except some specific options which are noted below.
> 
> Options not available in **Advanced Template** plugin

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Removed **Template** options:
```

* `template_mdate_classes`
* `template_mdate_format`
* `template_replace_values`
* `template_preview_replace_values`
* `template_selected_content_classes`

[[ui-and-ux]]
== UI and UX

=== Changed

[[ui-and-ux-improved-how-styles-are-applied-when-resizing-rows-and-columns-for-tables]]
==== Changed how cell and row heights are applied to tables.

Previously, {productname} added numerous `height` styles when resizing table rows such as on the `table` element, `tr` elements, and `td` elements. This resulted in unnecessarily verbose HTML output.

{productname} 7.0 addresses this by making a couple of changes:

* The height input field has been removed from the "Cell Properties" dialog. Now, the "Row Properties" dialog is the only way to update row heights. 
* When a table is resized using the resize handles or the "Row properties" dialog, existing `height` styles will be stripped from `td/th` elements where applicable and only applied to the `table` element and `tr` elements.

[NOTE]
{productname} 7.0 does not provide any fallback to revert to the old behavior.

=== Removed

[[ui-and-ux-force-notifications-to-have-a-close-button]]
==== Force notifications to have a close button

> Previously, {productname} had the option to modify default notifications so that they do not have display a `X` (close button).
> 
> {productname} is committed to enhance accessibility for all users, and aim to create consistency across all notifications and establish a standard tabbing flow for keyboard users.
> 
> As of {productname} 7.0, the `closeButton` property has been removed from xref:creating-custom-notifications.adoc[notification API], as a result the `closeButton` will always be visible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In previous versions of {productname}, xref:creating-custom-notifications.adoc[notifications] were able to be displayed without a close button (`X`). Accessibility is an important component of the editor, and when this button is not in a notification, that notification cannot be closed via keyboard navigation.

As of {productname} 7.0, the `closeButton` property has been removed from the xref:creating-custom-notifications.adoc[notification API], with all notifications now displaying a visible `closeButton`. This is to allow notifications to be closed using the `Tab` key. 
```

To prevent any expected iframes from being sandboxed, we recommend adding the source domains of such iframes to the new xref:content-filtering.adoc#sandbox-iframes-exclusions[`+sandbox_iframes_exclusions+`] option list, and including the domains in the default list where necessary. To prevent all iframes from being sandboxed, set the option `+sandbox_iframes+` to `+false+` in your editor configuration.

For further details on the `+sandbox_iframes+` option, see the xref:content-filtering.adoc#sandbox-iframes[the content filtering options], or refer to the xref:security.adoc#sandbox-iframes[security guide], or the link:https://www.tiny.cloud/docs/tinymce/6/6.8.1-release-notes/#new-sandbox_iframes-option-that-controls-whether-iframe-elements-will-be-added-a-sandbox-attribute-to-mitigate-malicious-intent[{productname} 6.8.1 release notes].

> For more information on the `sandbox_iframes` option see xref:security.adoc#sandbox-iframes[sandbox_iframes].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

.Example of before/after conversion.
[source, html]
----
<!-- Before Conversion -->
<object type="video/mp4" data="https://sneak-preview.tiny.cloud/3adc27b5-bb2f-49f0-9ccc-72b7c48313b0/bad.mov"></object>

<!-- After Conversion -->
<video src="https://sneak-preview.tiny.cloud/3adc27b5-bb2f-49f0-9ccc-72b7c48313b0/bad.mov" controls="controls"></video>
----
[NOTE]
If this behaviour is undesirable, set `+convert_unsafe_embeds+` to `+false+` in your editor configuration.

For further details on the `+convert_unsafe_embeds+` option, see the xref:content-filtering.adoc#convert-unsafe-embeds[content filtering options], or refer to the xref:security.adoc#convert-unsafe-embeds[security guide], or the link:https://www.tiny.cloud/docs/tinymce/6/6.8.1-release-notes/#new-convert_unsafe_embeds-option-that-controls-whether-object-and-embed-elements-will-be-converted-to-more-restrictive-alternatives-namely-img-for-image-mime-types-video-for-video-mime-types-audio-audio-mime-types-or-iframe-for-other-or-unspecified-mime-types[{productname} 6.8.1 release notes].

> For more information on the `convert_unsafe_embeds` option see xref:security.adoc#convert-unsafe-embeds[convert_unsafe_embeds].
> 
> // include::partial$security/sanitizing-html-input-and-protecting-against-xss-attacks-dom-parser-and-dom-purify.adoc[]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

[IMPORTANT]
For customers using the `template` plugin and are looking to migrate to the premium `advtemplate` plugin which contains all the functionality except some specific options which are noted below.

Options not available in **Advanced Template** plugin
    
* `template_cdate_classes`
* `template_cdate_format`
* `template_mdate_classes`
* `template_mdate_format`
* `template_replace_values`
* `template_preview_replace_values`
* `template_selected_content_classes`

[[ui-and-ux-elements-and-components]]
== UI and UX elements and components

=== Improved

[[ui-and-ux-elements-and-components-improved-how-styles-are-applied-when-resizing-rows-and-columns-for-tables]]
==== Improved how cell and row heights are applied to tables.

Previously, {productname} added numerous `height` styles when resizing table rows such as on the `table` element, `tr` elements, and `td` elements. This resulted in unnecessarily verbose HTML output.

{productname} 7.0 addresses this by making a couple of changes:

* The height input field has been removed from the "Cell Properties" dialog. Now, the "Row Properties" dialog is the only way to update row heights. 

> * When a table is resized using the resize handles or the "Row properties" dialog, existing `height` styles will be stripped from `td/th` elements where applicable and only applied to the `table` element` and `tr` elements.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* When a table is resized using the resize handles or the "Row properties" dialog, existing `height` styles will be stripped from `td/th` elements where applicable and only applied to the `table` element and `tr` elements.
```

The process for setting up a basic {productname} 7 instance is the same as {productname} 6.

Most configuration changes in {productname} 7.0 only affect complex use cases, such as custom plugins and customized user interface components.

It set outs the {productname} 7.0 changes that customers using {productname} 6 should be aware of as part of upgrading.

NOTE: For support related to migration, please contact https://support.tiny.cloud/hc/en-us/requests/new[Tiny Support].  +
Open Source users: please report issues in the https://github.com/tinymce/tinymce/[TinyMCE GitHub Repository].

[[overview]]
== Overview

* xref:commands-and-apis[Commands and APIs]
* xref:options[Options]
* xref:plugins[Plugins]
* xref:ui-and-ux[UI and UX]
* xref:security[Security]

[[tinymce-70-core-changes]]
== {productname} {productmajorversion} core changes.

For additional details on {productname} 7.0 changes, see xref:7.0-release-notes.adoc[{productname} 7.0 release notes].

[[commands-and-apis]]
== Commands and APIs 

This section documents the core changes made to {productname} 7.0.

=== Changed

==== Removed `InsertOrderedList` and `InsertUnorderedList` commands from {productname} core.

> Previously, native list commands were executable through various text patterns, leading to undefined browser behavior due to the embedded list code.
> 
> [NOTE]
> To utilize these commands, include `plugins: [ 'lists' ]` in the configuration. This action enables the commands previously removed from the core, providing access through the `lists` plugin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Previously, native list commands were executable through various text patterns, leading to undefined browser behavior due to the embedded list code.

In {productname} 7.0, these commands are only available in the xref:lists.adoc[*Lists plugin*].
```

.Example adding list plugin
[source, js]
----
tinymce.init({
  selector: "textarea",
  plugins: [
    "lists"
  ],
  toolbar: "bullist numlist",
});
----

> [[remove-trailing-brs-configuration-property-was-removed-from-our-domparser-api]]
> ==== `remove_trailing_brs` configuration property was removed from our `DomParser` API
> 
> The `remove_trailing_brs` configuration property was moved to the serializer.
> 
> [TIP]
> While the capability still exists for users that have added this option to their {productname} configuration, it is recommended that customers using our `DomParser` API directly, should migrate to use our `DomSerializer` setting instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[[remove-trailing-brs-configuration-property-was-removed-from-our-domparser-api]]
==== `remove_trailing_brs` option new default and removal from DomParser

 The `remove_trailing_brs` editor option is now defaulted to `+true+`. Also, the `remove_trailing_brs` property was removed from our xref:apis/tinymce.html.domparser.adoc[`DomParser` API]. This means that the `remove_trailing_brs` configuration option does not have an effect when content is inserted into the editor, only when the editor content is retrieved, as the `remove_trailing_brs` property is now only in our xref:apis/tinymce.html.serializer.adoc[`DomSerializer` API].
```
I would add an xref for remove_trailing_brs but it was removed.

Author: See [message in clean up PR](https://github.com/tinymce/tinymce-docs/pull/3165/files#r1530168846). I will wait for these to be both resolved before we merge.

[[changes-to-text-pattern-defaults-to-trigger-on-space-key-press]]
==== Changes to `text-pattern` defaults to trigger on `Space` key press.

> Applying basic formats such as headings, lists, bold and italic while typing are considered core functionality for WYSIWYG Editor's. {productname}'s default behavior for applying these format styles was applied on `Enter`, not `Space`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Applying basic formats such as headings, lists, bold and italic from typing them out in Markdown syntax is considered a must-have for WYSIWYG Editor's. In previous versions, {productname} would only apply these formats once the user presses the `Enter` key.
```

> {productname} 7 introduces changes to the default behavior for `text-patterns` so that on **Space** key the editor triggers a xref:content-behavior-options.adoc#block-patterns[block patterns] rather than on `Enter` key press.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{productname} 7 updates the default behavior of the `text-patterns` option to apply these formats when the user presses the`Space` key.
```

> [NOTE]
> Customers that wish to revert back to the previous default block `text_patterns` execution on `Enter` key pressing will be required to replace the preconfigured text_patterns. Learn more about how you can configure `text_patterns` in the xref:7.0-release-notes.adoc#a-new-trigger-property-for-block-text-pattern-configurations-allowing-pattern-activation-with-either-space-or-enter-keys[7.0 Release notes]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[NOTE]
The previous default `text_patterns` behavior, applying the format on an `Enter` key press, can be configured by replacing the `trigger` property with the value `'space'`. Learn more about how you can configure `text_patterns` in the xref:7.0-release-notes.adoc#a-new-trigger-property-for-block-text-pattern-configurations-allowing-pattern-activation-with-either-space-or-enter-keys[7.0 Release notes]
```

// #TINY-8929

Previously, the `ch` configuration property was used to specify the character that would trigger the autocompleter.

This property was deprecated in link:https://www.tiny.cloud/docs/tinymce/6/6.2-release-notes/#deprecated[{productname} 6.2] and has been removed in {productname} 7.0. Instead, use the `trigger` property to specify the `string` that will trigger the autocompleter.

If `+editor.ui.registry.addAutocompleter(name, options)+` was used in your configuration, updating your configuration from `ch: '<string>',` to `trigger: '<string>',` is required.

NOTE: The new `trigger` option can handle multiple character strings as the trigger.

For more information, visit the updated xref:autocompleter.adoc[Autocompleter] documentation.

[[options]]
== Options

=== Changed

[[highlight-on-focus]]
==== `highlight_on_focus`

Previously, the default value for the editor configuration option `highlight_on_focus` was set to `false` by default. In {productname} 7.0 this option is now by default set to `true`.

As a result, the focus outline for the editor will by default be displayed when the focus is on the editor.

> Customers who have created their own custom skins, or have implemented their own outline and wish to not to use the default one will need to add the `highlight_on_focus: false` option to their {productname} configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Customers who have created their own custom skins, or have implemented their own outline and do not intend to use the default will need to add `highlight_on_focus: false` to their {productname} configuration.
```

.Before refactor when using callbacks
[source,js]
----
tinymce.init({
  selector: 'textarea',  // change this value according to your HTML
  plugins: 'media',
  toolbar: 'media',
  media_url_resolver: (data, resolve/*, reject*/) => {
    if (data.url.indexOf('YOUR_SPECIAL_VIDEO_URL') !== -1) {
      const embedHtml = `<iframe src="${data.url}" width="400" height="400" ></iframe>`;
      resolve({ html: embedHtml });
    } else {
      resolve({ html: '' });
    }
  }
});
----

.After refactor using promises
[source,js]
----
tinymce.init({
  selector: 'textarea',  // change this value according to your HTML
  plugins: 'media',
  toolbar: 'media',
  media_url_resolver: (data) => {
    return new Promise((resolve) => {
      if (data.url.indexOf('YOUR_SPECIAL_VIDEO_URL') !== -1) {
        const embedHtml = `<iframe src="${data.url}" width="400" height="400" ></iframe>`;
        resolve({ html: embedHtml });
      } else {
        resolve({ html: '' });
      }
    });
  }
});
----

[NOTE]
Integrators will be required to update there configuration to the reflect the new `media_url_resolver` changes.

> For more information on using `+media_url_resolver+`, see xref:media.adoc#media_url_resolver[media_url_resolver]

Author: @ArvinJ-H  Added this, can you review please.

Author: This was updated by @MitchC1999 , marking as resolved.

:description: Guidance for migrating from TinyMCE 6 to TinyMCE 7
:keywords: migration, considerations, premigration, pre-migration

The process for setting up a basic {productname} 7 instance is the same as {productname} 6.

Most configuration changes in {productname} 7.0 only affect complex use cases, such as custom plugins and customized user interface components.

> This chapter describes the settings that require updating prior to migration; and workaround procedures for deprecated, deleted, and updated features.

Author: ```suggestion
```

=== Removed

==== The autocompleter `ch` configuration property has been removed. Use the `trigger` property instead.
// #TINY-8929

Previously, the `ch` configuration property was used to specify the character that would trigger the autocompleter.

This property was deprecated in link:https://www.tiny.cloud/docs/tinymce/6/6.2-release-notes/#deprecated[{productname} 6.2] and has been removed in {productname} 7.0. Instead, use the `trigger` property to specify the `string` that will trigger the autocompleter.

If `+editor.ui.registry.addAutocompleter(name, options)+` was used in your configuration, updating your configuration from `ch: '<string>',` to `trigger: '<string>',` is required.

NOTE: The new `trigger` option can handle multiple character strings as the trigger.

For more information, visit the updated xref:autocompleter.adoc[Autocompleter] documentation.

[[commands-and-queries]]
== Commands and queries

=== Changed

==== Removed `InsertOrderedList` and `InsertUnorderedList` commands from the core.

Previously, native list commands were executable through various text patterns, leading to undefined browser behavior due to the embedded list code.

> As of {productname} 7.0, these commands have been extracted from the core list commands.

Author: ```suggestion
```

[NOTE]
To utilize these commands, include `plugins: [ 'lists' ]` in the configuration. This action enables the commands previously removed from the core, providing access through the `lists` plugin.

[[options]]
== Options

=== Changed

[[highlight-on-focus]]
==== `highlight_on_focus`

Previously, the default value for the editor configuration option `highlight_on_focus` was set to `false` by default. In {productname} 7.0 this option is now by default set to `true`

As a result, the focus outline for the editor will by default be displayed when the focus is on the editor.

> Customers who have created their own custom skins, or have implemented their own outline and wish to not to use the default one will need to add the `highlight_on_focus: false` option to their {productname} configuration.

Reviewer 3: This might also implies that the customers who wish to provide custom CSS for the outline needs to set the option to `false`, which disables showing the outline on focus

[NOTE]
This change does not impact editors using inline mode.

=== Removed

[[force-hex-color]]
==== `force_hex_color`

Previously in {productname} 6, all colors in the content HTML where set to use `RGB` values by default. As the common practice is using `hex` values this change will be **reverted**.

.Example
[source, html]
----
<!-- example using RGB values -->
<p>Hello <span style="color: rgb(255, 0, 0);">red</span> color</p>

<!-- example using HEX values -->
<p>Hello <span style="color: #ff0000">red</span> color</p>
----

In {productname} 7.0, the default will be reverted back to using `hex` values by default.

[IMPORTANT]
The option `force_hex_color` will be removed altogether in {productname} 7.0.

[[deprecated-options]]
== Deprecated Options

=== Changed

> [[deprecated-options-remove-trailing-brs-option-removed-from-our-DomParser-API]]

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[[deprecated-options-remove-trailing-brs-option-removed-from-our-domparser-api]]
```

Author: will update this in a new suggestion as this anchor was updated in previous commit.

==== `remove_trailing_brs` option removed from our `DomParser` API

> The `remove_trailing_brs` option was moved to the serializer and the existing option is no longer the best way to remove the relevant tags.

Reviewer 3: Should we provide an alternative or workaround?

Author: there is no alternative or workaround as far as I am aware.

[TIP]
While the capability still exists for users that have added this option to their {productname} configuration, it is recommended that customers using our `DomParser` API directly, should migrate to use our `DomSerializer` setting instead.

[[plugins]]
== Plugins

=== Changed

> [[The-list-plugin-is-now-required-to-be-added-to-TinyMCE-config-in-order-to-execute-list-commands]]

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[[the-list-plugin-is-now-required-to-be-added-to-tinymce-config-in-order-to-execute-list-commands]]
```

Author: this was updated in a previous commit to `Removed `InsertOrderedList` and `InsertUnorderedList` commands from {productname} core.`

==== The list plugin is now required to be added to {productname} config, in order to execute list commands

A breaking change has been introduced regarding the insertion of **lists** using the `InsertOrderedList` and `InsertUnorderedList` commands.

Despite the presence of these commands, they have been functional even without the `list` plugin being added to the {productname} init configuration.

{productname} 7.0, now **requires** that the `list` plugin is present in the `init` configuration for executing these insert list commands.

> As a result, and users that notice styling issues with their existing documents will be required to add the `list` plugin to their `init` config, as executing the `InsertOrderedList` and `InsertUnorderedList` commands will have longer effect the editor content.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
As a result, any users that notice styling issues with their existing documents will be required to add the `list` plugin to their `init` config, as executing the `InsertOrderedList` and `InsertUnorderedList` commands will have longer effect the editor content.
```

Author: This was updated in a previous commit, and the context has now been changed. "marking as resolved to un-block merging."

.Example adding list plugin
[source, js]
----
tinymce.init({
  selector: "textarea",
  plugins: [
    "lists"
  ],
  toolbar: "bullist numlist",
});
----

[[removed-plugins]]
=== Removed Plugins

In {productname} 7.0 the below plugin has been removed.

[[removed-plugins-template-plugin]]
==== Removed open-source `Template` plugin

The open-source `Template` plugin and associated config options have been removed in {productname} 7.0.

> Customers using the `template` plugin need to migrate to the premium `advtemplate` which contains all the functionality except some esoteric options that was created very long ago. Instead of simply porting over these options, we will listen to customer feedback and quickly add the ones customer’s are relying on. 

Reviewer 4: Not sure if there is much benefit adding that last couple of sentences.
```suggestion
Customers using the `template` plugin need to migrate to the premium `advtemplate` which contains all the functionality except some esoteric options.
```

This plugin has been replaced with the **Advanced Template** plugin, see: xref:advanced-templates.adoc[Advanced Template] for more details.

[IMPORTANT]

> For customers using the `template` plugin and are looking to migrate to the premium `advtemplate` plugin which contains all the functionality except some specific options which are noted below.
> 
> Options not available in **Advanced Template** plugin

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
For customers using the `template` plugin that are looking to migrate to the premium `advtemplate` plugin, the following options are not available in the **Advanced Template** plugin:
```

Author: fixed in our review

    
* `template_cdate_classes`
* `template_cdate_format`
* `template_mdate_classes`
* `template_mdate_format`
* `template_replace_values`
* `template_preview_replace_values`
* `template_selected_content_classes`

[[ui-and-ux-elements-and-components]]
== UI and UX elements and components

=== Improved

[[ui-and-ux-elements-and-components-improved-how-styles-are-applied-when-resizing-rows-and-columns-for-tables]]
==== Improved how styles are applied when resizing rows and columns for Tables.

> Previously added numerous style elements when resizing table rows and columns such as on the `table element`, `tr elements`, and `td elements`. This resulted in unappealing HTML output.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Previously added numerous style elements when resizing table rows and columns such as on the `table`, `tr`, and `td` elements. This resulted in unappealing HTML output.
```

Author: this was re-worded in a previous commit, and the context is outdated.

> ==== Improved how styles are applied when resizing rows and columns for Tables.
> 
> Previously added numerous style elements when resizing table rows and columns such as on the `table element`, `tr elements`, and `td elements`. This resulted in unappealing HTML output.
> 
> {productname} 7.0 addresses this, now, the height input field has been moved from the `cell` properties dialog to the `row` properties dialog. Now, when an existing table is resized using the drag handles or the row properties dialog, inline css height declarations will be be stripped from cells and table elements and only applied on rows.
> 
> [NOTE]
> {productname} 7.0 does not provide any fallback to revert to the old behavior.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
==== Improved how cell and row heights are applied to tables.

Previously, {productname} added numerous `height` styles when resizing table rows such as on the `table` element, `tr` elements, and `td` elements. This resulted in unnecessarily verbose HTML output.

{productname} 7.0 addresses this by making a couple of changes:

* The height input field has been removed from the "Cell Properties" dialog. Now, the "Row Properties" dialog is the only way to update row heights. 
* When a table is resized using the resize handles or the "Row properties" dialog, existing `height` styles will be stripped from `td/th` elements where applicable and only applied to the `table` element` and `tr` elements.

[NOTE]
{productname} 7.0 does not provide any fallback to revert to the old behavior.
```

=== Fixed

[[ui-and-ux-elements-and-components-fixing-the-table-style-by-css-option]]
==== Fixing the `table_style_by_css` option

Previously, tables were styled using CSS rather than attributes, aligning with modern web development practices.

> However, due to {productname}'s legacy predating this shift, a default option called `table_style_by_css` was introduced in {productname} 6 to accommodate this transition. Unfortunately, the implementation of this feature resulted in an unexpected behavior where the older border attribute was not updated alongside CSS changes, causing issues such as the disappearance of dashed outlines around tables with no borders.

Reviewer 4: `table_style_by_css` was available in TInyMCE 5 so this paragraph isn't accurate

Author: fixed in our review

As a consequence, a breaking change has been initiated to address this issue, and the below changes are:

* when a table's border `width` is set to `zero`, the **border attribute** will also be set to `zero`.

=== Removed

[[ui-and-ux-elements-and-components-force-notifications-to-have-a-close-button]]

> ==== `Force` notifications to have a close button

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
==== Force notification dialogs to have a close button
```

Author: I will update this was changed in a previous commit.

Currently, {productname} has the option to modify default notifications so that they do not have display a `X` (close button).

{productname} is committed to enhance accessibility for all users, and aim to create consistency across all notifications and establish a standard tabbing flow for keyboard users.

> As of {productname} 7.0, the option `closeButton` has been removed and it will be defaulted to `true`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
As of {productname} 7.0, the option `closeButton` has been removed and the close button is always visible.
```

Author: this was updated in the latest commit

[IMPORTANT]

> If customers in-counter table styling issues, they will need to update their CSS to match the **new pattern** produced by {productname}.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If customers encounter table styling issues, they will need to update their CSS to match the **new pattern** produced by {productname}.
```

Reviewer 3: How does enforcing close button on notification dialog cause styling issues on tables?

Reviewer 2: This seems to be in the incorrect section 🤔

Author: this was updated in latest commit

[[security]]
== Security

=== Changed

[[sandbox-iframes-option]]
==== `sandbox_iframes`

Previous Security penetration testing surfaced a security issue with {productname} loading iframes `unsandboxed` which as a result could allow arbitrary code execution inside {productname} content.

> As a result, a configuration option was introduced in {productname} 6.8 to sandbox `(to isolate)` iframes and prevent javascript from executing code inside {productname} documents.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
As a result, a configuration option was introduced in {productname} 6.8 to sandbox `(to isolate)` iframes and prevent Javascript code being executed inside {productname} documents.
```

Author: this was updated in previous commit to match the release notes.

> Previous Security penetration testing surfaced a security issue with {productname} loading iframes `unsandboxed` which as a result could allow arbitrary code execution inside {productname} content.
> 
> As a result, a configuration option was introduced in {productname} 6.8 to sandbox `(to isolate)` iframes and prevent javascript from executing code inside {productname} documents.
> 
> The config option is currently set to `opt in`.
> 
> {productname} 7.0, the default value of the `sandbox_iframes` configuration option will be changed from `false` to `true`, making it `opt out` instead of `opt in` for their editors.
> 
> [IMPORTANT]
> The premium **Enhanced Media Embed** plugin uses `iframes` extensively and are currently no workarounds available except to keep a record of allowed sources. Customers who want to continue to use **Enhanced Media Embed** plugin in {productname} 7.0 will be required to add the option `sandbox_iframes: false` to their {productname} init configuration.
> 
> .Example
> [source, js]
> ----
> tinymce.init({
>   selector: "textarea",
>   sandbox_iframes: false,
> });
> ----
> 
> This follows our policy that we ship the most secure version of {productname} possible, while giving our customers the opportunity to make informed decisions on dialing back protections to a level that fits their use-case.

Author: @MitchC1999 see below to match release notes.

```suggestion
In {productname} 6.8.1, the xref:content-filtering.adoc#sandbox-iframes[sandbox iframes] editor option was introduced to allow iframes to be sandboxed by default when inserted into the editor.

In {productname} 7.0, the default for `+sandbox_iframes+` will change from `false` to `true`, meaning that all `+iframe+` elements inserted into the editor will be given the `sandbox=""` attribute by default, preventing most actions, including scripting and same-origin access, which may break existing editor content or produce undesirable effects.

To prevent any expected iframes from being sandboxed, we recommend adding the source domains of such iframes to the new xref:content-filtering.adoc#sandbox-iframes-exclusions[`+sandbox_iframes_exclusions+`] option list, and including the domains in the default list where necessary. To prevent all iframes from being sandboxed, set the option `+sandbox_iframes+` to `+false+` in your editor configuration.

For further details on the `+sandbox_iframes+` option, see the xref:content-filtering.adoc#sandbox-iframes[the content filtering options], or refer to the xref:security.adoc#sandbox-iframes[security guide], or the link:https://www.tiny.cloud/docs/tinymce/6/6.8.1-release-notes/#new-sandbox_iframes-option-that-controls-whether-iframe-elements-will-be-added-a-sandbox-attribute-to-mitigate-malicious-intent[{productname} 6.8.1 release notes].
```

For more information on the `sandbox_iframes` option see xref:security.adoc#sandbox-iframes[sandbox_iframes].

[[convert-unsafe-embeds-option]]
==== `convert_unsafe_embeds`

A previous Security penetration test surfaced a security issue with {productname} regarding object tags, which was a legacy method of inserting an external resource, such as a video, a PDF.

{productname} has determined that the object tag is regarded as unsafe, as it may execute javascript inside the {productname} content.

{productname} has a configuration option that converts object tags to modern equivalents such as `<img>, <video>` and `<audio>` tags, such as;

.Example of before/after conversion.
[source, html]
----
<!-- Before Conversion -->
<object type="video/mp4" data="https://sneak-preview.tiny.cloud/3adc27b5-bb2f-49f0-9ccc-72b7c48313b0/bad.mov"></object>

<!-- After Conversion -->
<video src="https://sneak-preview.tiny.cloud/3adc27b5-bb2f-49f0-9ccc-72b7c48313b0/bad.mov" controls="controls"></video>
----

In {productname} 7.0 by default;

> * all object tags will be converted by default by loading the editor.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* all object tags will be converted by loading the editor.
```

Author: this was updated in previous commit to match the release notes.

> A previous Security penetration test surfaced a security issue with {productname} regarding object tags, which was a legacy method of inserting an external resource, such as a video, a PDF.
> 
> {productname} has determined that the object tag is regarded as unsafe, as it may execute javascript inside the {productname} content.
> 
> {productname} has a configuration option that converts object tags to modern equivalents such as `<img>, <video>` and `<audio>` tags, such as;
> 
> .Example of before/after conversion.
> [source, html]
> ----
> <!-- Before Conversion -->
> <object type="video/mp4" data="https://sneak-preview.tiny.cloud/3adc27b5-bb2f-49f0-9ccc-72b7c48313b0/bad.mov"></object>
> 
> <!-- After Conversion -->
> <video src="https://sneak-preview.tiny.cloud/3adc27b5-bb2f-49f0-9ccc-72b7c48313b0/bad.mov" controls="controls"></video>
> ----
> 
> In {productname} 7.0 by default;
> 
> * all object tags will be converted by default by loading the editor.
> * the `convert_unsafe_embeds` option default value will change from `false` to `true` making it opt out instead of opt in.
> 
> [NOTE]
> To prevent automatic conversion of content, customers are advised to add `convert_unsafe_embeds: false` to their {productname} init configuration.

Author: @MitchC1999 see suggested update, to match the release notes + include example of the conversion.

```suggestion
In {productname} 6.8.1, xref:content-filtering.adoc#convert-unsafe-embeds[convert_unsafe_embeds] editor option was introduced to allow `+object+` and `+embed+` elements to be converted by default to the correct element, respective of the MIME type, automatically when inserted into the editor.

In {productname} 7.0, the default value for `+convert_unsafe_embeds+` will change from `false` to `true`, meaning that all `+object+` and `+embed+` tags will automatically be converted to different elements when inserted to the editor.

{productname} has a configuration option that converts object tags to modern equivalents such as `<img>, <video>` and `<audio>` tags, such as;

.Example of before/after conversion.
[source, html]
----
<!-- Before Conversion -->
<object type="video/mp4" data="https://sneak-preview.tiny.cloud/3adc27b5-bb2f-49f0-9ccc-72b7c48313b0/bad.mov"></object>

<!-- After Conversion -->
<video src="https://sneak-preview.tiny.cloud/3adc27b5-bb2f-49f0-9ccc-72b7c48313b0/bad.mov" controls="controls"></video>
----
[NOTE]
If this behaviour is undesirable, set `+convert_unsafe_embeds+` to `+false+` in your editor configuration.

For further details on the `+convert_unsafe_embeds+` option, see the xref:content-filtering.adoc#convert-unsafe-embeds[content filtering options], or refer to the xref:security.adoc#convert-unsafe-embeds[security guide], or the link:https://www.tiny.cloud/docs/tinymce/6/6.8.1-release-notes/#new-convert_unsafe_embeds-option-that-controls-whether-object-and-embed-elements-will-be-converted-to-more-restrictive-alternatives-namely-img-for-image-mime-types-video-for-video-mime-types-audio-audio-mime-types-or-iframe-for-other-or-unspecified-mime-types[{productname} 6.8.1 release notes].
```

{productname} 7 introduces changes to the default behavior for `text-patterns` so that on **Space** key the editor triggers a xref:modules/ROOT/partials/configuration/text_patterns.adoc#block-patterns[block pattern] rather then on `Enter` key press.

[NOTE]
Customers who want to keep the old behavior need to update their config with the text pattern option using enter as trigger key.

.Updated default text patterns
[source, ts]
----
default: [
  { start: '#', format: 'h1', trigger: 'space' },
  { start: '##', format: 'h2', trigger: 'space' },
  { start: '###', format: 'h3', trigger: 'space' },
  { start: '####', format: 'h4', trigger: 'space' },
  { start: '#####', format: 'h5', trigger: 'space' },
  { start: '######', format: 'h6', trigger: 'space' },
  { start: '1.', cmd: 'InsertOrderedList', trigger: 'space' },
  { start: '*', cmd: 'InsertUnorderedList', trigger: 'space' },
  { start: '-', cmd: 'InsertUnorderedList', trigger: 'space' },
  { start: '>', cmd: 'mceBlockQuote', trigger: 'space' },
  { start: '---', cmd: 'InsertHorizontalRule', trigger: 'space' },
]

> ----

Author: ```suggestion
----

For information on the **text_patterns**, see xref:content-behavior-options.adoc#text_patterns[Text Patterns]
```

* xref:ui-and-ux-elements-and-components[UI and UX elements and components]
* xref:security[Security]

[[tinymce-70-core-changes]]
== {productname} {productmajorversion} core changes

For additional details on {productname} 7.0 changes, see xref:7.0-release-notes.adoc[{productname} 7.0 release notes].

[[breaking-changes]]
== Breaking Changes

> TODO//

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
TODO//

=== The autocompleter `ch` configuration property has been removed. Use the `trigger` property instead.
// #TINY-8929

Previously, the `ch` configuration property was used to specify the character that would trigger the autocompleter.

This property was deprecated in https://www.tiny.cloud/docs/tinymce/latest/6.2-release-notes/#deprecated[{productname} 6.2] and has been removed in {productname} 7.0. Instead, use the `trigger` property to specify the `string` that will trigger the autocompleter.

If you previously used `+editor.ui.registry.addAutocompleter(name, options)+` in your configuration, then update your configuration from `ch: '<string>',` to `trigger: '<string>',`.

NOTE: The new `trigger` option can handle multiple character strings as the trigger.

For more information, visit the updated xref:autocompleter.adoc[Autocompleter] documentation.

```

add migration guide for TINY-8929

[[apis]]
== APIs

TODO//

[[commands-and-queries]]
== Commands and queries

TODO//

[[options]]
== Options

[[sandbox-iframes-option]]
=== `sandbox_iframes`

> Previous Security penetration testing surfaced a security issue with {productname} loading iframes `unsandboxed` which asa. result could allow arbitrary code execution inside {productname} content.

Reviewer 6: Did some of the text get removed `with asa.` ?

Author: ```suggestion
Previous Security penetration testing surfaced a security issue with {productname} loading iframes `unsandboxed` which as a result could allow arbitrary code execution inside {productname} content.
```

As a result, a configuration option was introduced in {productname} 6.8 to sandbox `(to isolate)` iframes and prevent javascript from executing code inside {productname} documents.

The config option is currently set to `opt in`.

{productname} 7.0, the default value of the `sandbox_iframes` configuration option will be changed from `false` to `true`, making it `opt out` instead of `opt in` for their editors.

[IMPORTANT]
The premium **Enhanced Media Embed** plugin uses `iframes` extensively and are currently no workarounds available except to keep a record of allowed sources. Customers who want to continue to use **Enhanced Media Embed** plugin in {productname} 7.0 will be required to add the option `sandbox_iframes: false` to their {productname} init configuration.

.Example
[source, js]
----
tinymce.init({

>   selector: "textarea",
> 	sandbox_iframes: false,

Reviewer 6: Mixed tabs and spaced here:

```suggestion
  selector: "textarea",
  sandbox_iframes: false,
```

[[highlight-on-focus]]
=== `highlight_on_focus`

Previously, the default value for the editor configuration option `highlight_on_focus` was set to `false` by default. In {productname} 7.0 this option is now by default set to `true`

As a result, the focus outline for the editor will by default be displayed when the focus is on the editor.

Customers who have created their own custom skins, or have implemented their own outline and wish to not to use the default one will need to add the `highlight_on_focus: false` option to their {productname} configuration.

[NOTE]
This change does not impact editors using inline mode.

[[force-hex-color]]
=== `force_hex_color`

Previously in {productname} 6, all colors in the content HTML where set to use `RGB` values by default. As the common practice is using `hex` values this change will be **reverted**.

.Example
[source, html]
----
<!-- example using RGB values -->
<p>Hello <span style="color: rgb(255, 0, 0);">red</span> color</p>

<!-- example using HEX values -->
<p>Hello <span style="color: #ff0000">red</span> color</p>
----

In {productname} 7.0, the default will be reverted back to using `hex` values by default.

[IMPORTANT]

> The option `force_hex_color` will be deprecated and removed in a later version of {productname}.

Author: @danoaky-tiny Can you provide any specific info/changes to this section once we have more information on this option being removed.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
[[force-hex-color]]
=== `force_hex_color`

Previously in {productname} 6, all colors in the content HTML where set to use `RGB` values by default. As the common practice is using `hex` values this change will be **reverted**.

.Example
[source, html]
----
<!-- example using RGB values -->
<p>Hello <span style="color: rgb(255, 0, 0);">red</span> color</p>

<!-- example using HEX values -->
<p>Hello <span style="color: #ff0000">red</span> color</p>
----

In {productname} 7.0, the default will be reverted back to using `hex` values by default.

[IMPORTANT]
The option `force_hex_color` will be removed altogether in {productname} 7.0.
```

Or merge that `[IMPORTANT]` line with the one above it maybe

[[Changes-to-text-pattern-defaults-to-trigger-on-Space-key-press]]
=== Changes to `text-pattern` defaults to trigger on `Space` key press.

Applying basic formats such as headings, lists, bold and italic while typing are considered core functionality for WYSIWYG Editor's. {productname}'s default behavior for applying these format styles was applied on `Enter`, not `Space`.

{productname} 7 introduces changes to the default behavior for `text-patterns` so that on **Space** key the editor triggers a xref:modules/ROOT/partials/configuration/text_patterns.adoc#block-patterns[block pattern] rather then on `Enter` key press.

[NOTE]

> Customers who want to keep the old behavior need to update their config with the text pattern option using enter as trigger key.

Author: ```suggestion
Customers that wish to revert back to the previous default block `text_patterns` execution on `Enter` key pressing will be required to replace the preconfigured text_patterns. See more xref:7.0-release-notes.adoc#a-new-trigger-property-for-block-text-pattern-configurations-allowing-pattern-activation-with-either-space-or-enter-keys[7.0 Release notes]
```

> Customers that wish to revert back to the previous default block `text_patterns` execution on `Enter` key pressing will be required to replace the preconfigured text_patterns. See more xref:7.0-release-notes.adoc#a-new-trigger-property-for-block-text-pattern-configurations-allowing-pattern-activation-with-either-space-or-enter-keys[7.0 Release notes]

Author: ```suggestion
Customers that wish to revert back to the previous default block `text_patterns` execution on `Enter` key pressing will be required to replace the preconfigured text_patterns. Learn more about how you can configure `text_patterns` in the xref:7.0-release-notes.adoc#a-new-trigger-property-for-block-text-pattern-configurations-allowing-pattern-activation-with-either-space-or-enter-keys[7.0 Release notes]
```

[[plugins]]
== Plugins

[[plugins-list-plugin]]
=== List Plugin

[[The-list-plugin-is-now-required-to-be-added-to-TinyMCE-config-in-order-to-execute-list-commands]]
==== The list plugin is now required to be added to {productname} config, in order to execute list commands

A breaking change has been introduced regarding the insertion of **lists** using the `InsertOrderedList` and `InsertUnorderedList` commands.

Despite the presence of these commands, they have been functional even without the `list` plugin being added to the {productname} init configuration.

{productname} 7.0, now **requires** that the `list` plugin is present in the `init` configuration for executing these insert list commands.

As a result, and users that notice styling issues with their existing documents will be required to add the `list` plugin to their `init` config, as executing the `InsertOrderedList` and `InsertUnorderedList` commands will have longer effect the editor content.

.Example adding list plugin
[source, js]
----
tinymce.init({
  selector: "textarea",
  plugins: [
    "lists"
  ],
  toolbar: "bullist numlist",
});
----

> [[deprecated-plugins]]
> == Deprecated Plugins
> 
> In {productname} 7.0 the below list is a list of deprecated plugins, config options and APIs according to the following list:
> 
> [[deprecated-plugins-template-plugin]]
> === Template plugin

Author: ```suggestion
[[removed-plugins]]
== Removed Plugins

In {productname} 7.0 the below list is a list of deprecated plugins, config options and APIs according to the following list:

[[removed-plugins-template-plugin]]
=== Template plugin
```

=== Fixing the `table_style_by_css` option

Previously, tables were styled using CSS rather than attributes, aligning with modern web development practices.

However, due to {productname}'s legacy predating this shift, a default option called `table_style_by_css` was introduced in {productname} 6 to accommodate this transition. Unfortunately, the implementation of this feature resulted in an unexpected behavior where the older border attribute was not updated alongside CSS changes, causing issues such as the disappearance of dashed outlines around tables with no borders.

As a consequence, a breaking change has been initiated to address this issue, and the below changes are:

* when a table's border `width` is set to `zero`, the **border attribute** will also be set to `zero`.

=== `Force` notifications to have a close button

Currently, {productname} has the option to modify default notifications so that they do not have display a `X` (close button).

{productname} is committed to enhance accessibility for all users, and aim to create consistency across all notifications and establish a standard tabbing flow for keyboard users.

> As of {productname} 7.0, the option `closeButton` has been removed and it will be defaulted to `true`.
> 
> ### How this will be addressed
> 
> The  `closeButton` option will be removed and have it will always be `true`

Author: ```suggestion
As of {productname} 7.0, the option `closeButton` has been removed and it will be defaulted to `true`.
```
